# MARSY: A multitask deep learning framework for prediction of drug combination synergy scores 

# Motivation

The improved therapeutic outcome and reduced adverse effects of synergistic drug combinations have turned them into standard of care in many cancer types. Given the wealth of relevant information provided by high-throughput screening studies, the costly experimental design of these combinations can now be guided by advanced computational tools. In this context, we present MARSY, a deep-multitask learning method that predicts the level of synergism between drug pairs tested on cancer cell lines. Using gene expression to characterize cancer cell lines and induced signature profiles to represent drug pairs, MARSY learns a distinct set of embeddings to obtain multiple views of the features. Precisely, a representation of the entire combination and a representation of the drug pair are learned in parallel. These representations are then fed to a multitask network that predicts the synergy score of the drug combination alongside single drug responses. A thorough evaluation of MARSY revealed its superior performance compared to various state-of-the-art and traditional computational methods. A detailed analysis of the design choices of our framework demonstrated the predictive contribution of the learned embeddings by this model. Additionally, we predicted 116,348 new synergy scores, which revealed new insights regarding the impact of drug combinations in cancer cell lines. 
